# Basic Control Command

all function and class are under the `cv namespace`

---
`Mat::Mat(int rows, int cols, int type);`
This is the one of the many constructor available in Mat class. It initialize the Mat object with the value given by the Scalar object

### Parameters :
`rows` - Number of rows in the 2D array ( height of the image in pixels)

`cols` - Number of columns in the 2D array ( width of the image in pixels)

`type` - specify the bit depth, data type and number of channels of the image. I gave `CV_8UC3` and it specify 8 bit unsigned integers with 3 channels. Here are some of possible inputs for this parameter

 - `CV_8UC1` - 8 bit unsigned integers with single channel

 - `CV_8UC3` - 8 bit unsigned integers with 3 channels

 - `CV_64FC1` - 64 bit floating point value with 1 channels

---

`Mat varible = imread("fileName", flag);` --- allow opencv to read image under the project folder and store in varible

  ### Flag
  - `CV_LOAD_IMAGE_UNCHANGED` - image-depth=8 bits per pixel in each channel,  no. of channels=unchanged 
  
  - `CV_LOAD_IMAGE_GRAYSCALE` - image depth=8 bits,  no. of channels=1
  
  - `CV_LOAD_IMAGE_COLOR` - image-depth=?,  no. of channels=3
  
  - `CV_LOAD_IMAGE_ANYDEPTH` - image-depth=unchanged ,  no. of channels=?
  
  - `CV_LOAD_IMAGE_ANYCOLOR` - image-depth=?,  no. of channels=unchanged 

  - The `image-depth` means the number of bits allocated for each pixel. If it is 8, each pixel can have a value between 0 and 255. If it is 4, each pixel can have a value between 0 to 15 (1111 in binary). 
  
---

`bool Mat::empty()`

This function returns true, if `Mat::data==NULL` or `Mat::total() == 0`

---

`nameWindow("windowName", flag);` --- allow opencv to create a empty window 

  - `CV_WINDOW_AUTOSIZE` - User cannot resize the image. Image will be displayed in its original size
  - `CV_WINDOW_FREERATIO` - User can resize the image. Image will be displayed in its original size

`resizeWindow("windowName", long, width);` --- allow the opencv to resize the window with given long*width;

`moveWindow("windowName", long, width);` --- allow the opencv to move the existing window to the give place

---

`imshow("name", variable(matrix));` --- allow the window to show the image

---

### Write Image to File

`imwrite("outputfilename", variable);` --- allow opencv to output a image

The function saves the image in the variable `Mat::variable` to a file, specified by `filename` . If this function fails to save the image, it will return `false`. On success of writing the file to the harddisk, it will return `true`.

### Write Video to File

`VideoWriter::VideoWriter(const string& filename, int fourcc, double fps, Size frameSize, bool isColor=true)`

`int fourcc` - specify the 4 character code for the codec which is used to compress the video. Your computer may not be supported some codecs. So, if you fail to save the video, please try other codecs. Here are some popular codecs.

 - CV_FOURCC('D', 'I', 'V', '3') for DivX MPEG-4 codec
 - CV_FOURCC('M', 'P', '4', '2') for MPEG-4 codec
 - CV_FOURCC('D', 'I', 'V', 'X') for DivX codec 
 - CV_FOURCC('P','I','M','1') for MPEG-1 codec

`void VideoWriter::write(const Mat& image)`

Write a frame to the video stream. The size of the frame should be same as the size you specified when initializing the `VideoWriter `object.


---

`waitKey();` --- wait user to press the key then continue

waitKey() function wait for keypress for certain time, specified by delay (in milliseconds). If delay is zero or negative, it will wait for infinite time. If any key is pressed, this function returns the ASCII value of the key and your program will continue. If there is no key press for the specified time, it will return -1 and program will continue.

