# Capture Video From File
`VideoCapture::VideoCapture(const string& filename)`

This is one of few constructors available in `VideoCapture class`. This constructor open the video file and initializes the VideoCapture object for reading the video stream from the specified file. 

---

`bool VideoCapture::IsOpened()`

If the previous call to` VideoCapture` constructor is successful, this method will return `true`. Otherwise it will return `false`. 

---

`bool VideoCapture::set(int propId, double value)`

You can change some properties of VideoCapture object based on propId.

`doubleVideoCapture::get(int propId)`

This function returns the value of the property which is specified by `propId`. 

`value` - This is the new value you are going to assign to the property, specified by the propID.

### propId
 - `CV_CAP_PROP_POS_MSEC` - current position of the video in milliseconds
 - `CV_CAP_PROP_POS_FRAMES` - current position of the video in frames
 - `CV_CAP_PROP_FRAME_WIDTH` - width of the frame of the video stream
 - `CV_CAP_PROP_FRAME_HEIGHT` - height of the frame of the video stream
 - `CV_CAP_PROP_FPS` - frame rate (frames per second)
 - `CV_CAP_PROP_FOURCC` - four character code  of codec
 
---
 
`bool VideoCapture::read(Mat& image);`

The function grabs the next frame from the video, decodes it and stores it in the `image` variable.


# Capture Video From Webcam
Webcam has a class called `VideoCapture`

---

`VideoCapture::VideoCapture(int device)`

Here the '0' means the index of the camera to be used. You can use 1,2,3.. instead of 0, if your computer is attached to more than 1 camera. 

---

`double dWidth = cap.get(CV_CAP_PROP_FRAME_WIDTH)`

This function obtain the width (in pixels) of frames of the camera output.

`double dHeight = cap.get(CV_CAP_PROP_FRAME_HEIGHT)`

This function obtain the height (in pixels) of frames of the camera output.

---

`bool VideoCapture::read(Mat& image);`

The function grabs the next frame from the video, decodes it and stores it in the `image` variable.

# Write Video to File

`VideoWriter::VideoWriter(const string& filename, int fourcc, double fps, Size frameSize, bool isColor=true)`

`int fourcc` - specify the 4 character code for the codec which is used to compress the video. Your computer may not be supported some codecs. So, if you fail to save the video, please try other codecs. Here are some popular codecs.

 - `CV_FOURCC('D', 'I', 'V', '3')` for DivX MPEG-4 codec
 - `CV_FOURCC('M', 'P', '4', '2')` for MPEG-4 codec
 - `CV_FOURCC('D', 'I', 'V', 'X')` for DivX codec 
 - `CV_FOURCC('P','I','M','1')` for MPEG-1 codec
 - `CV_FOURCC('M', 'P', 'E', 'G')` for .avi file

`void VideoWriter::write(const Mat& image)`

Write a frame to the video stream. The size of the frame should be same as the size you specified when initializing the `VideoWriter `object.




Example:
```
#include "opencv2\opencv.hpp"


using namespace cv;
int main() {
	Mat frame;
	VideoCapture vid(0);

	if (!vid.isOpened()) return -1;
	while (vid.read(frame)) {
		imshow("frame", frame);
		if (waitKey(1000 / 20) >= 0) break;

	}
	return 1;

}
```
