 # Change Brightness of Image or Video
 
 Changing brightness is a point operation on each pixel. 
 
 If you want to increase the brightness, you have to add some constant value to each and every pixel.
                         
                         `new_img (i, j) = img(i, j) + c`

 If you want to decrease the brightness, you have to subtract some constant value from each and every pixel.
                         
                         `new_img (i, j) = img(i, j) - c`
### Example
```
 Mat imgL = img + Scalar(-75, -75, -75); //decrease the brightness by 75 units for 3 channels
```

---

# Change Contrast of Image or Video

Changing the contrast is also a point operation on each pixel. The easiest way to increase the contrast of an image is, multiplying each pixel value by a number larger than 1.

                        ` new_img (i, j) = img(i, j) * c                     c > 1`


The easiest way to decrease the contrast is, multiplying each pixel value by a number smaller than 1.

                         `new_img (i, j) = img(i, j) * c                     c < 1`


---

 # Histogram Equalization of Grayscale or Color Image
 
 
 ### Grayscale
 Histogram is the intensity distribution of an image.
 
 Histogram Equalization is defined as equalizing the intensity distribution of an image or averaging the intensity distribution curve. Histogram equalization is used to improve the contrast of an image. 
 
 ### Example
 ` equalizeHist(inputImage, outputImage); //equalize the histogram`
 
 ---
 
 ### Color Image
 
 For Color Image we need to split the channels from (HSV) and take channel[0] which stand for lightness
 
 ### Example
 ```
 cvtColor(img, img_hist_equalized, CV_BGR2YCrCb); //change the color image from BGR to YCrCb format

 split(img_hist_equalized,channels); //split the image into channels

 equalizeHist(channels[0], channels[0]); //equalize histogram on the 1st channel (Y)

 merge(channels,img_hist_equalized); //merge 3 channels including the modified 1st channel into one image

 cvtColor(img_hist_equalized, img_hist_equalized, CV_YCrCb2BGR); //change the color image from YCrCb to BGR format (to display image properly)
 ```
 
 ---
 
 ### New function
 
 `void cvtColor( InputImg, OutputIMg, int Flag)`
 
 This function converts image from one color space to another color space. 
 
 ### flag 
 - BGR ----- Red + Green + Blue 3 channel
 - HSB ----- Hue(色调) + Saturate(饱和度) + Brightness(明亮度)
 - HSL ----- Hue + Saturate + Lightness(深浅度)
 
 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Hsl-hsv_models.svg
 
 1. `CV_BGR2HSV`   ---------> switch between BGR and HSV
 2. `CV_HSV2BGR`   -----/
 3. `CV_RGB2HLS`   ---------> switch between BGR and HSL
 4. `CV_HLS2RGB`   -----/
 5. `CV_BGR2GRAY`  ---------> switch between BGR and Gray
 6. `CV_GRAY2BGR`  -----/
 
 ---
 
 # Smoothing image
 
 ### New Function
 
 `void blur( InputArray, OutputArray, Size ksize)`
 
 This OpenCV function will smooth an image using normalized box filter (Homogeneous Blur).Smoothing is done by sliding a window (kernel or filter) across the whole image and calculating each pixel a value based on the value of the kernel and the value of overlapping pixels of original image.(对于normalized box filter和Gaussion smoothing都是对3x3的pixel进行操作的)
 
 `void GaussianBlur( InputArray src, OutputArray dst, Size ksize)`
 
 Use Gaussion smoothing to smooth the diagram(but idk what it really is)
 
 ###  Homogeneous Smoothing
 This is the most simplest method of smoothing an image. It takes simply the average of the neighbourhood of a pixel and assign that value to itself.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
